
This directory contains some short test scripts for SVToolkit that can be used to verify that your installation is working correctly.
The scripts also serve as examples of processing pipelines, although you may want to adapt these piplines to your specific needs.

There are two test shell scripts:

discovery.sh
Runs preprocessing and deletion discovery on a 200Kb region of chr1 using data from the 1000 Genomes pilot phase.
This script also runs genotyping on the discovered deletions.
Since Genome STRiP currently does not emit events with base-pair resolution,
this script skips alternate allele alignments (there are no precise alternate alleles to align to).
Run directory: test1
Output: test1.discovery.vcf, test1.genotypes.vcf

genotyping.sh
Runs preprocessing, alternate allele alignment and genotyping on several deletions called by the 1000 Genomes project
on this same 200Kb region of chr1.  The VCF file from the 1000 Genomes project provides precise alternate alleles
for some of the events.  The event boundaries determined by the 1000 Genomes project are somewhat different than the
event boundaries as determined by Genome STRiP.
Run diretory: test2
Output: test2.genotypes.vcf


Tips for running the scripts

Ensure that java, R (Rscript), samtools, and bwa are all on your path.
There is a suitable version of bwa in the ./bwa directory if you don't have it separately installed.

Run the scripts from this directory.
If you want to run the scripts in a different directory, modify the SV_DIR and/or SV_TMPDIR variables in the scripts if necessary.

The scripts should run in under five minutes each and produce vcf files as indicated above.
Baseline results for comparison are in the benchmark directory.


Notes

Both scripts utilize a special configuration file adapted for calling alignments with only 200Kb of aligned data.
The genome sizes in this parameter file are not suitable for use with whole-genome sequencing data.

The scripts use a truncated reference file (and mask file) to save space.
These files come gzipped, but are automatically unzipped by the scripts.

These tests are only to check that the installation is functioning correctly.
The genotyping results (and to a lesser extent the discovery results) are not as accurate as calls from the 1000 Genomes
project because we are working with only a subset of the available data.

Both scripts are written to be self-contained, so they both run the preprocessing step.
In practice, you would likely just run the preprocessing step once on your data set.
